# Image Segmentation and Classification

This repository contains code for image segmentation and classification using various image processing and machine learning techniques. The main goal is to segment and classify images of different classes by applying preprocessing, segmentation, and classification algorithms.

## Prerequisites

Before running the code, make sure you have the following libraries installed:

- OpenCV (`cv2`)
- NumPy (`numpy`)
- Scikit-image (`skimage`)
- Matplotlib (`matplotlib`)
- Scikit-learn (`sklearn`)
- Pandas (`pandas`)
- SciPy (`scipy`)

You can install these libraries using the following command:
- pip install opencv-python numpy scikit-image matplotlib scikit-learn pandas scipy



## How to Use

1. Clone this repository:


2. Navigate to the repository:


3. Run the `main.py` script:



This script performs image segmentation and classification using a series of processing steps. It reads images from the specified folders, applies preprocessing techniques, performs segmentation, extracts features, and trains a classification model.

## File Structure

- `main.py`: The main script to run image segmentation and classification.
- `_Output`: Folder containing the input images for segmentation.
- `_GroundTruth`: Folder containing the ground truth images for evaluation.
- `output_mywork`: Folder containing the segmented images generated by the algorithm.
- `dataset.csv`: CSV file containing extracted features for classification.

## Results

After running the `main.py` script, the script outputs classification results for both training and test datasets. You will see accuracy, F1-score, precision, and recall scores for evaluating the model's performance.

Feel free to customize and adapt the code according to your specific requirements and dataset.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

